Now, once you've decided that
a system is what you need,
it's really helpful to understand
what the heck you're in for.
[LAUGH] So
what I'm gonna cover is a fairly
comprehensive breakdown of design systems.
I think as an industry, we've been
doing this stuff for a while now.
It's been seven,
eight years since the words, design system
have really kinda come on the scene.
And before that, five or six years, folks
were working very systematically, right?
So this, as I said earlier, is an attempt
for me to kinda put a stake in
the ground and define what I mean when
I use all of these kinds of words.
We're gonna start with the layers that
are labeled along the bottom here,
foundations, tokens,
core systems, and components.
And then we will talk about how each of
those layers is broken down into three
parts.
So that's assets, processes,
and documentation.
The layers are very conceptual, and
the parts make those layers
a lot more tangible.
So let's dive in, and
we'll start with foundations.
So the foundation's layer of
a design system is the subset of
the organization's brand
that's intended to be used for
the design and
development of digital interfaces.
So we can think about
something like color.
I heard somebody online was saying
color is a struggle for them.
So in the context of a brand,
there's all kinds of color you can use.
Many times,
if you look at your brand guidelines,
there's gonna be a whole palette of
colors for use in expressing that brand.
But in digital interface work, oftentimes
we don't wanna use tons and tons of color.
It's mostly a gray scale, right,
to sort of build an interface
that kinda disappears.
And then we use one or two primary
brand colors to kinda highlight or
accent things.
And then we may have a small subset of
colors to use for more specific meanings,
like a cautionary color or
a successful color, things like this.
So that is definitely a subset of the
types of colors that might be needed in
the brand expression.
So what we're doing here is we're looking
at everything that's available in that
brand layer, and we're scaling it down to
just the things that are needed to create
a digital interface.
So other than color, what else can
live at the foundational layer?
Well, there's lots and
lots of stuff that can live here, okay?
The lists that I'll share with you here
are definitely not exhaustive, but
these are just the kinds of things that
are representative of what most systems
are offering.
So things like design principles,
how do we make decisions around design?
Things like logos and typefaces,
how do we use those, and
what's the appropriate way to do so
in a digital world?
What about how we use audio or sound?
How about voice and tone for our content?
Layout guidelines,
motion guidelines, elevation,
all of that stuff can be included
at the foundations layer.
The best design systems are able to
clarify and focus those brand guidelines
in ways that are very specific to
the digital work we've got to do.
So that's kinda the foundation's layer.
The next layer,
we just call the tokens layer.
And this is a set of codified design
decisions that are based on the stuff
we've identified in
the foundation's layer.
So the goal of the tokens layer is to
take those design concepts that we
just covered in foundations and
express them in a way.
We say that we use the word codify.
But really, if you're a developer,
you can think about this as
very similar to a variable.
All I really mean is that
we give them a name and
we give them a value, so
a token name and a token value.
And if we use color as an example,
you might define a color,
token with a name of color primary
brand and assign that token,
the value of your brand's
primary blue color.
It's not just colors, of course, this
applies to, and it's much more complex
than this because there are layers of
tokens that you can define if needed But
I want to give you the concept here.
And you could codify lots of
different things beyond color.
You can do type stacks, you can do radius
for your buttons, all that kinda stuff.
And we do this for many reasons.
But there are kind of three primary
reasons that we've kind of moved in
the direction of tokens.
The first is consistent design or
cohesive experiences.
That's because if you've got that single
source of truth for, in this example,
the hex value of a primary brand color,
then you can trust that it's gonna
be used the same everywhere, right?
You were mentioning earlier, you did some
research and you found there's lots of
different buttons, or lots of
different colors and all this stuff.
And there's arguments about
whether that's a concern or not.
But this is a way to kind of say,
let's bring that all under control.
The second reason that we might
think about this kind of approach is
ease of change.
So when you do decide to rebrand, I think
you mentioned, Kayla, you guys were about
to rebrand, [LAUGH] and you wanna
change that primary color in some way.
Well, this gives you a single
place to make that change and
kind of see that ripple
through all the interfaces.
So it's really powerful, right?
Now, with that power, comes risk.
And we'll talk a little bit more about
what that looks like when we get to
the processes or process section of this.
So ease of change is another opportunity
that we get when we think about things at
the token layer.
And the third is multi-platform support.
So once you've defined the tokens for
your system, you do that in a place that's
separate from all the tooling
that your designers use,
that all of your developers use.
It sort of lives in its own place,
and you get the opportunity then to
kinda transform or translate those
values out to different tech stacks, or
designed tooling, or
whatever it is that you need to use.
So in this way, you can support your web
interfaces, maybe built with Sass or
native applications in iOS.
The same tokens can be translated for
use across any of the tools
that you might need.
I'll share in the resources section,
at the end,
there's some really cool work being
done on token specification as well.
So if you're not falling along with some
of the stuff that's happening there.
This stuff is real, it's happening,
it's been supported,
there's really smart folks working on it.
So really cool to see this coming to life.
So I mentioned color, I think I even
mentioned border radius, there's lots and
lots of stuff that you can codify.
So again,
not an exhaust of lists here, but
just a handful of things
you could also consider.
Things like spacing, right, how much space
do we need in and around the objects?
What about elevation?
How much depth do we want
our interface to convey?
Opacity, volume, borders, timing,
all of these kinds of things,
any single design decision you
can kinda codify with a token.
It's a pretty long list, and the ones
that you choose to implement are really
gonna be determined by what's
important to you and your interface.
So I won't tell you here's
the ones you should definitely do.
Color tends to be an easy one,
because every interface has
some kinda color in it.
[LAUGH] So
that's tokens at a conceptual level.
Let's kinda move on to our next layer,
which is what I just call core systems.
I think of the core systems layer as
a set of building blocks systems,
and these are used to solve
common interface challenges.
So one way to think of this is that,
if you codify a single design decision,
you're gonna get a token.
But if you codify how those
design decisions work together,
you come up with a core system.
So you could codify a single decision
like spacing in a token, and
then using that spacing token
you could more broadly codify
how you handle layout and
use that token in a grid.
So there's a lot of common interface
challenges you can come up with,
create solutions for,
things like your iconography.
I mentioned grids, but
also just layout in general.
Theming, color systems,
type scale systems,
all of these core systems that enable
you to build interfaces with ease.
Most of the time, these core systems are
built with the tokens that we defined at
the previous layer and
that enables that sort of ease of change,
which we talked about earlier
as a benefit for token work.
So these three innermost layers I
just call the fundamental layers,
these are what everything
else is kinda based on.
And if you're someone who's building or
maintaining a design system, then creating
stability in these fundamental
layers is a big part of your job.
The fourth layer, though,
is kinda where your subscribers
will probably wanna focus, right?
This is what we call the components layer,
and
this really just contains the reusable
parts of a digital interface.
This is what most people think of
when they talk about design systems.
This is your buttons, and your alerts,
and all this stuff, right,
form inputs, labels, all of it.
Now, components can be really simple,
like a button or a text input.
But they can also be complex,
like a header or a navigation.
So you can nest simple components
to create more complex ones.
And when they're built properly,
they are constructed from the foundations,
the tokens, and the core systems.
And while your subscribers will likely
focus mostly on this components layer,
having those fundamental layers beneath is
what gives them the greater
depth reasoning and
flexibility that you kinda need to evolve
as things around you are changing.
I mentioned a few, but
the list of possible components
is obviously very long.
[LAUGH] If you go to any design
system documentation site,
there's usually a link somewhere that
gets you to the list of components, and
these can range anywhere from just
a few to, 20, 40, 60, 80 components.
So there's lots of these, but
common ones are things like buttons and
search bars, text inputs,
tabs, tooltips, radio buttons,
all the stuff that makes
up digital interfaces.
Of course,
it's impossible to list them all here.
But hopefully, you can kinda
see how this building approach,
starting with the brand and adding layers
until we reach these components will
give you a really solid and
extendable design system.
Now, in order to really kinda cover this
topic, we have to break these layers down
just a little bit to kinda make
them a little bit more practical,
a little bit more tangible.
So let's do that real quick.